** SELF TEST EXERCISES ****

1. Suppose you are writing a program that uses a stream called fin that
will be connected to an input file, and a stream called fout that will be
connected to an output file. How do you declare fin and fout? What
include directive, if any, do you need to place in your program file?
2. Suppose you are continuing to write the program discussed in the
previous exercise and you want it to take its input from the file stuff1.
dat and send its output to the file stuff2.dat. What statements do you
need to place in your program in order to connect the stream fin to
the file stuff1.dat and to connect the stream fout to the file stuff2.
dat? Be sure to include checks to make sure that the openings were
successful.
3. Suppose that you are still writing the same program that we discussed in
the previous two exercises and you reach the point at which you no longer
need to get input from the file stuff1.dat and no longer need to send
output to the file stuff2.dat. How do you close these files?
4. Suppose you want to change the program in Display 6.1 so that it sends
its output to the screen instead of the file outfile.dat. (The input should
still come from the file infile.dat.) What changes do you need to make
to the program?
5. What include directive do you need to place in your program file if your
program uses the function exit?
6. Continuing Self-Test Exercise 5, what does exit(1) do with its argument?
7. Suppose bla is an object, dobedo is a member function of the object bla,
and dobedo takes one argument of type int. How do you write a call to
the member function dobedo of the object bla using the argument 7?
8. What characteristics of files do ordinary program variables share?
What characteristics of files are different from ordinary variables in a
program?
9. Name at least three member functions associated with an iostream object,
and give examples of usage of each.
10. A program has read half of the lines in a file. What must the program do
to the file to enable reading the first line a second time?
11. In the text it says “a file has two names.” What are the two names? When
is each name used?
